---
title: 3-2-1 Rule
parent: Design
nav_order: 300
---
# 3-2-1 Rule
The 3-2-1 rule is one of the basics when talking about data protection. This best practice tells you to have:
- Three copies of the data
- Stored in two different media
- One media should be either offsite or offline

You should consider these rules also during your planning of the backup for Office 365. As a result it is important to protect the Veeam Backup for Microsoft Office 365 deployment against accidental loss. Protecting the Veeam Backup for Microsoft Office 365 deployment ensures Availability for its infrastructure components and more importantly for the data in the Veeam Backup for Microsoft Office 365 Backup Repositories.

A Veeam Backup for Microsoft Office 365 deployment can be either on a physical or virtual environment. As with both virtual or physical server installations, Veeam Backup & Replication™ oﬀers all the tools for application and crash consistent backups of VBO deployments.

Each VBO Server and Proxy installation includes a specific Veeam VSS writer:

| Writer Name | Veeam Backup for Microsoft Office 365 Writer |
| Writer ID | {dbc7d206-2f04-429a-80f5-dbb23da79372} |

This VSS writer ensures application and crash consistent backups of the VBO infrastructure components. Even while the VBO Server and Proxies are running backup and restore jobs of Office 365 data. Protecting a VBO deployment with Veeam Backup & Replication (VBR) oﬀers the following advantages:
- Ensures swift VBO components restores (ConfigDB, ProxyDB and associated files)
- Performs granular restores of content using Veeam Explorer for Exchange, SharePoint and OneDrive components available in the VBR Server (Veeam Backup and Replication 9.5 Update 4 and higher)
- Offload the backup data to an alternative location like Tape.

The protection planning must also include the additional VBO Proxy Servers and Repositories. Should the VBO Backup Repository use SMB shares, such shares need to be backed up separately. The configuration (ConfigDB) and Proxy (ProxyDb) folder on the VBO Server and VBO Proxy installations are very important. They include all the information and details for the VBO infrastructure configuration. Restoring these components from a backup is the quickest way to maintain the existing (running) configuration without aﬀecting the rest of the VBO deployment and its jobs. Protecting a VBO Server and its infrastructure is critical with advanced deployments. Having a protection plan which covers all components allows for agile recoveries of all Veeam Backup for Microsoft Office 365 major components: VBO Server, Proxies and Backup data in the Repositories.

Protecting the VBO deployments using the Veeam Backup and Replication solution (VBR) allows to send and manage independent copies to separate storage tiers for longer retention. Using VBR this can be a Scale-Out-Backup-Repository, Tape or a Cloud-Connect Provider. VBR is using the VSS integration of VBO for application consistent backups of the VBO data. Additionally VBR recognizes the dataset and allows you to directly restore single-items out of the image-based backups using the regular explorers within VBR.

Due to increasing popularity a special mention goes to the object storage. Since VBO v4 Veeam supports the usage of object storage natively within VBO. Either in private or public clouds. Object storage is a good candidate for storing backup data as there are several cost-attractive solutions on the market. When using object storage VBO is using a local cache for optimization and efficiency. This cache is metadata and is synchronized to the object storage to ensure availability. When the local VBO cache gets lost it can be recovered from the object storage.
Most object storage solutions can ensure data redundancy by storing all objects on multiple geo-locations/cluster nodes/hubs depending on the chosen solution. As all VBO data and cache is stored within the object store these options can also support you to achieve the 3-2-1 rule.   
